# XamiAndAR
Experience Augmented Reality on Android using Xamarin.Android.

XamiAndAR is a library for developing Android Augmented Reality applications using Xamarin.Android and C#. It is the C# binding to the original AndAR library developed by Tobias Domhan (tdomhan). XamiAndAR enables C# developers to develop Augmented Reality applications for Android using Xamarin.Android platform. It provides all the features exposed by AndAR library to Xamarin.Android developers. Internally, AndAR uses ARToolkit to achieve Augmented Reality. XamiAndAR is an open source library which comes with a .dll file. Presently, XamiAndAR library supports both armeabi and armeabi-v7a Android architectures. The library targets Android version: API Level 12 with Xamarin.Android v3.1 support. 

Download the zipped folder from GitHub repository. Unzip the downloaded folder. The folder contains XamiAndAR.dll which has to be added to Xamarin.Android project which can be used further to build Augmented Reality applications. We can use both Xamarin Studio and Visual Studio with Xamarin plugin to build Augmented Reality applications using this XamiAndAR library. As it is a binding library to AndAR library, you can go through the documentation part of the AndAR and later can follow the same to achieve Augmented Reality using Xamarin.Android. You can go through getting started documentation of Xamarin.Android here: http://developer.xamarin.com/guides/android/getting_started/ 

Sample project to start XamiAndAR is being provided with the library named XamiAndARApp. This project is a Xamarin.Android project which covers basic functionalities that you can implement to achieve marker based AR using XamiAndAR. In order to run this project provided with the library please use Visual Studio 2013 or Xamarin Studio. Please print the marker “Hiro” provided as a pdf file placed inside “Marker” folder available within the XamiAndARApp project folder. Once you run the XamiAndARApp project (Which utilizes XamiAndAR library) on your Android phone, your phone’s rear camera will be accessed and then you need point out the rear camera to the printed Hiro marker. Once you point out the camera to the Hiro marker, default 3D object will be overlaid onto the printed marker in the camera view of the application. This demo works well on Android 3.1 and above versions (i.e. HoneyComb and above). 
References:
AndAR - https://code.google.com/p/AndAR/ 
